BD-3659 Liquid Operator tutorials (#8993)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/operators.md

| contains | checks to see if a string or string array contains a string|
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 role="presentation" }

## Tutorials

> Let's go through a few tutorials to learn how use these operators for your marketing campaigns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's go through a few tutorials to learn how to use these operators for your marketing campaigns:
```

```
{% endraw %}

{: start="3"}
3. Close the conditional logic with the {% raw %}`{% endif %}`{% endraw %} tag.

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% endif %}
```
{% endraw %}

![A push notification composer with the full Liquid code from the tutorial.][13]{: width="100%"}

{% details Full Liquid code %}
{% raw %}
```liquid
{% if {{custom_attribute.${total_spend}}} >0 %}
Surprise! We added a 15% discount code to your account that automatically applies to your next order.
{% else %}
Need a sign to update your wardrobe? We added a 15% discount code to your account that will automatically apply to your first order.
{% endif %}
```
{% endraw %}
{% enddetails %}

Now if a user's "Total Spend" custom attribute is greater than `0`, they will get the message:

```
Surprise! We added a 15% discount code to your account that automatically applies to your next order.
```
If a user's "Total Spend" custom attribute does not exist or is equal to `0`, they will get the following message:

```
Need a sign to update your wardrobe? We added a 15% discount code to your account that will automatically apply to your first order.
```

### Choose message with a string custom attribute

> Let's send push notifications to users, and personalize the message based on each user's most recently played game. This will use an string custom attribute called `recent_game` to check which game a user has last played.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's send push notifications to users, and personalize the message based on each user's most recently played game. This will use a string custom attribute called `recent_game` to check which game a user has last played.
```

1. Begin a conditional statement that uses the equals (`==`) operator to check if a user's most recent game is Awkward Dinner Party. Then, create a message to send to those users.

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% if {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} == 'Awkward Dinner Party' %}
You are formally invited to our next dinner party. Log on next week for another round of delectable dishes and curious conversations.
```
{% endraw %}

{: start="2"}
2. Use the `eslif` tag with the equals (`==`) operator to check if user's most recent game is Proxy War 3: War of Thirst. Then, create a message to send to those users.

{% raw %}
```liquid

> {% elsif {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} == 'Proxy War 3: War of Thirst' %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% elsif {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} == 'Proxy War 3: War of Thirst' %}
```

Author: Is this missing an edit?

Your fleet awaits your next orders. Log on when you're ready to rejoin the war for hydration.
```
{% endraw %}

{: start="3"}

> 3. Use the `eslif` tag with the does not equal (`=!`) operator to check if user has a most recent game that isn't Awkward Dinner Party or Proxy War 3: War of Thirst. Then, create a message to send to those users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Use the `elsif` tag with the does not equal (`=!`) operator to check if user has a most recent game that isn't Awkward Dinner Party or Proxy War 3: War of Thirst. Then, create a message to send to those users.
```

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% elsif {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} =! 'Awkward Dinner Party' or 'Proxy War 3: War of Thirst' %}
Limited Time Deal! Get 15% off our best-selling classics!
```
{% endraw %}

{: start="4"}
4. Add the {% raw %}`{% else %}`{% endraw %} tag to capture users who don't have a recent game. Then, create a message to send to those users.

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% else %}
Hey! I've got a deal for you. Buy 2 of our newest releases and get 10% off!
```
{% endraw %}

{: start="5"}
5. Close the conditional logic with the {% raw %}`{% endif %}`{% endraw %} tag.

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% endif %}
```
{% endraw %}

{% details Full Liquid code %}
{% raw %}
```liquid
{% if {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} == 'Awkward Dinner Party' %}
You are formally invited to our next dinner party. Log on next week for another round of delectable dishes and curious conversations.
{% elsif {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} == 'Proxy War 3: War of Thirst' %}
Your fleet awaits your next orders. Log on when you're ready to rejoin the war for hydration.

> {% elsif {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} =! 'Awkward Dinner Party' or 'Proxy War 3: War of Thirst' %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% elsif {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} != 'Awkward Dinner Party' or 'Proxy War 3: War of Thirst' %}
```

Reviewer: This `elsif` block is redundant. Since if it doesn't match the `if` and the first `elsif`, it means the recent_game is not `Awkward Dinner Party` or `Proxy War 3: War of Thirst`. Can just use `else` to capture all the rest cases

Author: Is there a way to make this capture users whose `recent_game` isn't Awkward Dinner Party or Proxy War 3, but **is** something else?

I'd like the `else` block to capture people who don't have **any** `recent_game`.

Reviewer: Then you can do `elsif rencent_game == blank`, and in `else`, do whatever you want for `recent_game isn't Awkward Dinner Party or Proxy War 3`

Limited Time Deal! Get 15% off our best-selling classics!
{% else %}
Hey! I've got a deal for you. Buy 2 of our newest releases and get 10% off!
{% endif %}
```
{% endraw %}
{% enddetails %}

![A push notification composer with the full Liquid code from the tutorial.][14]

Now, if a user last played Awkward Dinner Party, they'll receive this message:

```
You are formally invited to our next dinner party. Log on next week for another round of delectable dishes and curious conversations.
```

If a user's most recent game is Proxy War 3: War of Thirst, they will receive this message:

```
Your fleet awaits your next orders. Log on when you're ready to rejoin the war for hydration.
```

If a user has recently played a game that wasn't Awkward Dinner Party or Proxy War 3: War of Thirst, they'll get this message:

```
Limited Time Deal! Get 15% off our best-selling classics!
```

> If a user hasn't played any games or that custom attribute doesn't exist on their profile, they'll get this message:

Reviewer: Only one of the condition can match. The other one is redundant.

Author: Related to the above comment, how can I make this go through the following conditions.

1. recent_game is Awkward Dinner Party.
2. recent_game is Proxy War.
3. recent_game is not Awkward Dinner Party or Proxy War, but is another game.
4. recent_game is null or doesn't exist.

Reviewer: You need to either switch 3 and 4, or in 3, you also check recent_game != blank && ....

```
Hey! I've got a deal for you. Buy 2 of our newest releases and get 10% off!
```

### Abort message based on location

You can abort a message based on just about anything. Let's abort a message if a user isn't based in a specified area, as they might not qualify for the promotion, show, or delivery.

1. Begin a conditional statement with the equals (`==`) operator that checks if the user's time zone is `America/Los_Angeles`, then create a message to send to those users. 

{% raw %}
```liquid

> {% if {{${time_zone.$}}} == 'America/Los_Angeles' %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% if {{${time_zone}}} == 'America/Los_Angeles' %}
```

| contains | checks to see if a string or string array contains a string|
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2 role="presentation" }

## Tutorials

Let's go through a few tutorials to learn how to use these operators for your marketing campaigns:

### Choose message with an integer custom attribute

> Let's send push notifications with personalized promotional discounts to users who have and haven't made purchases. This will use an integer custom attribute called `total_spend` to check a user's total spend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's send push notifications with personalized promotional discounts to users who have or haven't made purchases. The push notification will use an integer custom attribute called `total_spend` to check a user's total spend.
```

_my thoughts on 'and' vs 'or'_

in my mind, if given a ven diagram of users with the circles "have made purchases" and "hasn't made purchases":

- `and` implies selecting the part of the diagram where the circles overlap
- `or` implies select the 2 parts where the diagram doesn't overlap

*i don't feel strongly about this, but just wanted to share my thoughts. feel free to apply if it makes sense to you too.

> 1. Begin a conditional statement that uses the greater than (`>`) operator checks if a user's total spend is greater than `0` to capture users who've made purchases. Then, create a message to send to those users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Write a conditional statement using the greater than (`>`) operator to check if a user's total spend is greater than `0`, indicating they've made a purchase. Then, create a message to send to those users.
```

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% if {{custom_attribute.${total_spend}}} >0 %}
Surprise! We added a 15% discount code to your account that automatically applies to your next order.
```
{% endraw %}

{: start="2"}
2. Add the {% raw %}`{% else %}`{% endraw %} tag to capture users whose total spend equals `0` or doesn't exist. Then, create a message to send to those users.

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% else %}
Need a sign to update your wardrobe? We added a 15% discount code to your account that will automatically apply to your first order.
```
{% endraw %}

{: start="3"}
3. Close the conditional logic with the {% raw %}`{% endif %}`{% endraw %} tag.

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% endif %}
```
{% endraw %}

![A push notification composer with the full Liquid code from the tutorial.][13]{: width="100%"}

{% details Full Liquid code %}
{% raw %}
```liquid
{% if {{custom_attribute.${total_spend}}} >0 %}
Surprise! We added a 15% discount code to your account that automatically applies to your next order.
{% else %}
Need a sign to update your wardrobe? We added a 15% discount code to your account that will automatically apply to your first order.
{% endif %}
```
{% endraw %}
{% enddetails %}

> Now if a user's "Total Spend" custom attribute is greater than `0`, they will get the message:

Reviewer 2: i honestly don't know the answer to this, so i'm asking to verify: are custom attributes meant to be code-styled?

Author: They're code-styled in the [custom attributes doc](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data/custom_data/custom_attributes), so I'll do that here, but I think values in general alternate between code-style and double-quotations

```
Surprise! We added a 15% discount code to your account that automatically applies to your next order.
```
If a user's "Total Spend" custom attribute does not exist or is equal to `0`, they will get the following message:

```
Need a sign to update your wardrobe? We added a 15% discount code to your account that will automatically apply to your first order.
```

### Choose message with a string custom attribute

Let's send push notifications to users, and personalize the message based on each user's most recently played game. This will use a string custom attribute called `recent_game` to check which game a user has last played.

> 1. Begin a conditional statement that uses the equals (`==`) operator to check if a user's most recent game is Awkward Dinner Party. Then, create a message to send to those users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Write a conditional statement using the equals (`==`) operator to check if a user's most recent game is Awkward Dinner Party. Then, create a message to send to those users.
```

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% if {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} == 'Awkward Dinner Party' %}
You are formally invited to our next dinner party. Log on next week for another round of delectable dishes and curious conversations.
```
{% endraw %}

{: start="2"}

> 2. Use the `elsif` tag with the equals (`==`) operator to check if user's most recent game is Proxy War 3: War of Thirst. Then, create a message to send to those users.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Use the `elsif` tag with the equals (`==`) operator to check if user's most recent game is *Proxy War 3: War of Thirst*. Then, create a message to send to those users.
```

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% elsif {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} == 'Proxy War 3: War of Thirst' %}
Your fleet awaits your next orders. Log on when you're ready to rejoin the war for hydration.
```
{% endraw %}

{: start="3"}

> 3. Use the `elsif` tag with the does not equal (`!=`) and "and" (`&&`) operators to check if user has a recent game (the value isn't blank), and that the game isn't Awkward Dinner Party or Proxy War 3: War of Thirst. Then, create a message to send to those users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Use the `elsif` tag with the does not equal (`!=`) and "and" (`&&`) operators to check if the user has a recent game (the value isn't blank), and that the game isn't Awkward Dinner Party or Proxy War 3: War of Thirst. Then, create a message to send to those users.
```

Reviewer 2: also: please verify, but i _think_ game titles are supposed to be italicized?

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% else %}
Hey! I've got a deal for you. Buy 2 of our newest releases and get 10% off!
```
{% endraw %}

{: start="5"}
5. Close the conditional logic with the {% raw %}`{% endif %}`{% endraw %} tag.

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% endif %}
```
{% endraw %}

{% details Full Liquid code %}
{% raw %}
```liquid
{% if {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} == 'Awkward Dinner Party' %}
You are formally invited to our next dinner party. Log on next week for another round of delectable dishes and curious conversations.
{% elsif {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} == 'Proxy War 3: War of Thirst' %}
Your fleet awaits your next orders. Log on when you're ready to rejoin the war for hydration.
{% elsif {{custom_attribute.${recent_game}}} != blank && 'Awkward Dinner Party' or 'Proxy War 3: War of Thirst' %}
Limited Time Deal! Get 15% off our best-selling classics!
{% else %}
Hey! I've got a deal for you. Buy 2 of our newest releases and get 10% off!
{% endif %}
```
{% endraw %}
{% enddetails %}

![A push notification composer with the full Liquid code from the tutorial.][14]

> Now, if a user last played Awkward Dinner Party, they'll receive this message:

Author: ```suggestion
Now, if a user last played *Awkward Dinner Party*, they'll receive this message:
```

```
You are formally invited to our next dinner party. Log on next week for another round of delectable dishes and curious conversations.
```

> If a user's most recent game is Proxy War 3: War of Thirst, they will receive this message:

Author: ```suggestion
If a user's most recent game is *Proxy War 3: War of Thirst*, they will receive this message:
```

```
Your fleet awaits your next orders. Log on when you're ready to rejoin the war for hydration.
```

> If a user has recently played a game that wasn't Awkward Dinner Party or Proxy War 3: War of Thirst, they'll get this message:

Author: ```suggestion
If a user has recently played a game that wasn't *Awkward Dinner Party* or *Proxy War 3: War of Thirst*, they'll get this message:
```

```
Limited Time Deal! Get 15% off our best-selling classics!
```

If a user hasn't played any games or that custom attribute doesn't exist on their profile, they'll get this message:

```
Hey! I've got a deal for you. Buy 2 of our newest releases and get 10% off!
```

### Abort message based on location

You can abort a message based on just about anything. Let's abort a message if a user isn't based in a specified area, as they might not qualify for the promotion, show, or delivery.

> 1. Begin a conditional statement with the equals (`==`) operator that checks if the user's time zone is `America/Los_Angeles`, then create a message to send to those users. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Write a conditional statement using the equals (`==`) operator to check if the user's time zone is `America/Los_Angeles`, then create a message to send to those users. 
```

{% raw %}
```liquid
{% if {{${time_zone}}} == 'America/Los_Angeles' %}
Stream now!
```
{% endraw %}

{: start="2"}

> 2. Now use the {% raw %}`{% else %}`{% endraw %} tag to capture users who are outside the `America/Los_Angeles` time zone, follow with {% raw %}`{% abort_message () %}`{% endraw %} to specify that those users shouldn't receive any message, and end the conditional logic with the {% raw %}`{% endif %}`{% endraw %} tag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. To avoid sending messages to users outside the `America/Los_Angeles` time zone, wrap {% raw %}`{% else %}`{% endraw %} and {% raw %}`{% endif %}`{% endraw %} tags around an {% raw %}`{% abort_message () %}`{% endraw %} tag.
```
